# pdf_service

service designed for convinient url extraction from given pdf file

## BUILD

docker-compose up

## API DESCRIPTION

GET localhost:8080/docs/     autogenerated api documentation (! for detailed information about filtering look here !)

GET localhost:8080/     simple html file with pdf upload form

POST localhost:8080/pdf_app/api/pdf/     endpoint that handles pdf uploads

GET http://localhost:8080/pdf_app/api/document/          list of all documents in db

GET http://localhost:8080/pdf_app/api/url/          list of all urls in db

## requerements:

pdfx                        library that performs url extraction from given pdf file

django==2.1.2

django-filter==1.1.0        (coreapi - full support)

djangorestframework==3.8.2  togather with django and django-filter used for RESTful data representation

urllib3                     used to check parsed url status (dead|alive)

psycopg2                    used to write data to Postgres

celery==4.2.1               used to perform background tasks (pdf parsing, url status checking)

redis==2.10.6               used as message brocker for celery

coreapi==2.3.1              used to automatically generate api documentation

pygments                    pretty api-doc appearence

markdown                    pretty api-doc appearence

## Frameworks and libraries selection explanation

1. pdfx was selected as url extraction tool for pdf documents because it was 
written specifically for one purpose - extraction of urls from pdf documents.
With pdfx there is no need to manually write regexps, just 1-2 lines of code is
enough to perform url extraction.

2. Django Rest Framework and django-filter were used in this service simply
because they provide quick and painless way to write almost any RESTful web
service.

3. coreapi in pdf_service enables painless api documentation autogeneration.
coreapi library was selected as main api schema generation tool (and
possible microservice interaction tool) because it is part of Django Rest
Framework ecosystem, which means full support for Django Rest Framework and
djano-filter library.

4. nginx + uwsgi was selected beceuse nginx is best production-ready
web server (also contains nice load balancer), as for uwsgi - it is simply
personal preference.

5. pdf parsing and http requests is quite heavy/time consuming tasks
(especially for large pdf files and congested internet connection), threfore
celery (with redis as message broker) was selected as background task host
because it is extreamly easy to integrate it into any django service.

6. reason for Postgres selection as main database is same as with nginx - 
best relational database out there: constant development, good documentation 
and support.
